We'll come back and in this lesson we're going to be exploring how to create another really useful function
that you can remove reuse over and over again.
So what this one is going to do is it's actually going to remove duplicates from an array so any array.
So first of all let's set up an array.
So we're going to call it my array.
And let's give it some values here within the array.
So do some string values and we'll also.
So we'll do some more string values then I'll add some numeric values as well and another string.
So now we need to have some duplicates.
So the concept here is that we want to loop through all of the items within this array and simply get
rid of any duplicates that we might have.
So we've got some repetition that we're going to have here and I want to have this a really long array
with a lot of values in it.
So I can also add in these as another set of duplicates so you can have a lot of items here within this
array.
And what we want to do is we want to get rid of the duplicate.
So we want to create a function that can actually do that and then output the new cleaned up array with
an output.
So let's let's take care of that.
And let's set up a function in order to do that.
So the function can be called remove doop.
So this one will remove duplicates.
And what we need to do is we need to pass in an array.
So this can work dynamically using any array and looping through all of the values in the array that
gets passed in to remove the duplicates essentially removing the duplicates from the array and next
thing that I want to do is I want to have another array.
So this is going to be my array clean.
So this is going to be the clean one and this is where I'm going to pass that array into the remove
duplicate some passing in my array into here and we're going to return back within this function.
We're going to return back the cleaned up version of that array.
So next let's set up our connections to our h to model so we can output it into the ID with that element
with the ID of output.
So document's get element by id and grab that into the output object.
So now we can actually run through this and we can update output and update the enraged him well with
whatever we're getting returned back from the clean array as well as the array.
So let's first put the array and we'll concatenate together
adding in a line break there so that it's more readable and then other value there.
So that might clean me.
And basically what this is going to return back is it's going to return back to a are.
So let's let's try this out first.
And we see that we've got both of those arrays.
They both get output.
They're both the same.
So what we want to do is we want to clean these up and we want to have the ability to loop through the
array values and essentially remove the duplicates.
So what do we need here within this function in order to accomplish this.
And these types of functions are really just super useful because you can use them within any script
just passing in any function any array and then cleaning it up or moving out the duplicate.
So the first thing that we do need to do is we need to set up
an array that we can use as a result or this can just be c array.
So this is going to be our cleaned up array that we can put the new entries into and then ultimately
what we're going to be doing is we're going to be returning back this cleaned up array instead of the
a are.
So we'll set that up first and declare it so that we can make use of it within our code.
So setting up that first array and the other thing that we do need to set up is we need an object.
And the reason that we need to have.
So this is going to be our cleaner object or holding object.
So basically what we're going to do is we're going to put the values of the array as the keys of the
object and we know that when we try to add in keys that already exist then we don't add in any more
duplicates.
So this is going to be a quick and easy way to clean up the contents of the array just to make sure
that we don't have any duplicates and return it back so we're going to eventually we're putting it into
an object and then we're going to loop through it and return back all of the values from the object
and then push them back into our brand new array.
So let's set that up.
So first thing that we need to do is set up a loop and starting with variable x starting at zero.
We want to loop through the entire length of the brand new array that we're using or there that's been
passed in and then increment X and then this is where we're going to place it with in the C object
and we're passing it in as the key so we know it doesn't really matter what the value is.
So this can actually be whatever it doesn't actually matter what this value is because we're not actually
going to be using this value.
The important part is that we're setting up this object with whatever the contents of that particular
item are.
So let's say we can log that so you can take a closer look at actually what's going to be set and what's
going to be set in here.
So let's go back and refresh it and take a look in the console and we see that we as we loop through
we hit all of the items in the array.
And now we're setting those up within our object.
So the next thing that we need to do and if I go out into the console or if I do see object
I can't see it because it's actually sitting in the local scope of the function.
So this is important to note.
So from the previous lesson that we are only using these values within the function themselves we're
not able to see it.
And if we do want to see it we can always console log that out here within our console.
So this is another great use for a console log because we can see that it's it's really useful for debugging.
So let's go back refreshed and now we see that we can actually see the contents of that object.
So all of the values are whatever but we see that the keys here are all the different unique values
of the items in the array.
So now all that's left is to loop through the object and output them and push them back into the C array.
So what I want you to do now is pause the video and create this loop.
So remember earlier in the earlier lessons when we're looking at objects we saw how we can loop through
all of the items within the object and we can pull out their key values.
So this is what I want you to do within this line of code and then ultimately push it back into this
new array that we're building.
So as we loop through all of these keys like 22 45 all the way down javascript hello and world.
So they're actually going to get deposited and it's going to be this value that you're going to be building
out and pushing into your brand new array.
So go ahead.
Pause a video try it and I'll show you the solution.
Coming up so little you get an opportunity to try this.
And this is going to be a great exercise with working with arrays and objects and in javascript.
It's very common that you're working with both.
And this is a great way to handle data and especially it's great to be comfortable with it especially
when you're handling large amounts of data.
So getting used to creating these loops and pulling out information from arrays and objects is really
important to learning how to program with Javascript.
So let's set up our loop here and I'm going to just declare another variable here.
So he's going to call it Z and I'm going to leave this one just blank for now.
And this is the one that I'm actually going to use so I'm going to use
Z and I'm going to do an.
So we're looking through the C object.
So we're looping through so that this value what you could call it whatever you want you could call
it key as well.
So this this isn't really relevant within the code actually working or not.
And you can also console log that I want to take a closer look at what we're actually picking up in
this value.
So what I'll do is comment this one out and we'll refresh it and then we'll take a closer look at what
we've actually got here that we're outputting.
So this is exactly what we want to output so we see that these are the unique values that are contained
within the array.
So the last thing the last part of this was simply to build this brand new array with those values that
were returning back within this within this variable.
So let's add in the push method and add those in.
And so basically as we loop through we're going to be building out our brand new version of the array.
And when we refresh it then we see that we do have only unique values left within the array.
So we've cleaned it up and we've built a brand new array.
And this can this is very flexible.
It can work with a whole bunch of values or we can remove out a bunch of values so we only have a few.
And you can see that as we loop through it the second line of code here is the one that's cleaned up
and all of the duplicates have been removed.
So what I want you to do now is open up your editor and recreate this remove duplicate function and
create yourself an array have some duplicate values in that array and try passing that array into the
remove duplicate array and see your results.
Just check out the function.
Make sure that's working that's removing the duplicate results and try it for yourself.